---
layout: post
title: Intro
order: 10
---

This guide is borne of the question "Could you write a list of all the things, that a good Ruby on Rails developer should know?". I decided to expand it to the whole of Ruby web development and related “Full Stack” skills (but also limit it to web development, as it is not about Ruby in general).

It is inspired by the guide formatting advice of ["PHP The Right Way"](http://www.phptherightway.com/). This guide also contains sections dedicated to very important aspects of web development, some explanation (if needed) and list of tutorial links.

Sometimes I will suggest some tools or gems (with comparison if possible), but these are merely suggestions to get you started. It is up to you, the reader, to decide whether you would like to use them or not.

> Important notice. All suggestions in this guide are my personal opinion. They do not represent absolute truth or generally-accepted best practices. My goal is simply to make suggestions based on my experience.

> Additionally, this guide is not complete tutorial -- some clear steps like installing Ruby (via `rbenv` or `rvm`), managing dependencies via Bundler, etc. are not described due to coverage of these steps in other tutorials.

## Why not cover "Ruby On Rails" and why not call it "The Right Way"?
I am glad you are asking! :)  
It is not a secret that most Ruby web developers are introduced to Ruby via Rails. This is a double-edged sword. It lowers the barrier to entry, but it also narrows the range of knowledge. This guide contains a special Ruby on Rails section to cover some Rails-specific things, and hopefully it will encourage you to look outside of Rails and the “Rails Way”. I can't call the way described here as "The Right Way" as it is just another way to look at Ruby.

## Manifesto

* Prefer simple solutions over complex solutions ([Occam's razor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Occam%27s_razor))
* Configuration over confusion
* Boilerplate over magic

## You can help here

I am open to questions, suggestions and critique based on the contents of this guide.  
You can participate by opening a [discussion issue on GitHub](https://github.com/iJackUA/rwdtow/issues/new) or [joining the Gitter chat](https://gitter.im/iJackUA/rwdtow).

I am not a native English speaker, so the verbiage here may be far from perfect. Please contribute with your proofreading and typographical fixes via Pull Requests in GitHub.

Share this guide if you consider it useful. Please use the hashtag `#RWDTOW` to mark your social posts.
